Limit width of code-blocks to prevent wraparound of TOC (#1224)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/manage/pages/schema-reg/schema-reg-authorization.adoc

= Schema Registry Authorization
:page-categories: Management, Schema Registry, rpk, Security
:page-aliases: manage:schema-reg-authorization.adoc

> :description: Learn how to set up and manage Schema Registry Authorization using fine-grained ACL definitions for operations that allow users access to specific Schema Registries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Learn how to set up and manage Schema Registry authorization using ACL definitions that controls user access to specific Schema Registry operations.
```

how about this simplification?

Reviewer 2: Since it is a licensed feature, going with our convention that licensed features are initcap.

// tag::single-source[]

> You can use Schema Registry Authorization to set up and manage ACL definitions for operations that allow users access to specific Schema Registries.

Reviewer 3: You can use Schema Registry Authorization to set up and manage ACL definitions for operations that allow users access to specific Schema Registry resources.

ifndef::env-cloud[]
[NOTE]
====
include::shared:partial$enterprise-license.adoc[]
====
endif::[]

== About Schema Registry Authorization

> Schema Registry Authorization is useful for managing permissions for users and applications that interact with the Redpanda Schema Registry, ensuring that only authorized entities can perform operations such as reading, writing, or modifying schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Schema Registry Authorization controls which users and applications can access Redpanda Schema Registry resources. You can restrict operations such as reading, writing, or modifying schemas to authorized entities only.
```

| `DELETE`
| `delete`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions`
| `POST`
| `write`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `DELETE`
| `delete`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/schema`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/referencedby`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `global`

| `compatibility/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `POST`
| `read`
| `subject`

| `/status/ready`
| `GET`
| none/open
| -

| `/security/acls`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `cluster_action`

| `/security/acls`
| `POST`
| `alter`
| `cluster_action`

| `/security/acls`
| `DELETE`
| `alter`
| `cluster_action`
|===

For additional guidance on these operations, see the xref:api:ROOT:schema-registry-api.adoc#get-/security/acls[Redpanda Schema Registry API^].

== Enable Schema Registry Authorization

To enable Schema Registry Authorization for a cluster:

[,bash]
----
rpk cluster config set schema_registry_enable_authorization true
----

You must have a valid Redpanda Enterprise license to:

* Enable Schema Registry Authorization.

> * Use the `rpk security acl` command to manage ACLs for the Schema Registry.

Reviewer: consider adding this as a pre-req on this page

= Schema Registry Authorization
:page-categories: Management, Schema Registry, rpk, Security
:page-aliases: manage:schema-reg-authorization.adoc
:description: Learn how to set up and manage Schema Registry Authorization using ACL definitions that control user access to specific Schema Registry operations.
// tag::single-source[]

> You can use Schema Registry Authorization to control user access to specific Redpanda Schema Registry resources through Access Control Lists (ACLs).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Schema Registry Authorization enables fine-grained restriction of operations to Schema Registry resources by user or role through Access Control Lists (ACLs).

ifndef::env-cloud[]
[NOTE]
====
include::shared:partial$enterprise-license.adoc[]
====
endif::[]

== About Schema Registry Authorization

> Schema Registry Authorization allows you to control which users and applications can perform specific operations within the Redpanda Schema Registry. This ensures that only authorized entities can read, write, modify, or delete schemas.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Schema Registry Authorization allows you to control which users and applications can perform specific operations within the Redpanda Schema Registry. This ensures that only authorized entities can read, write, modify, delete, or configure schemas.

> === What changed in release 25.2

Reviewer 3: Is this standard, to include the version in which a feature was introduced?

Reviewer 2: yes

> === What changed in release 25.2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Before release 25.2, Schema Registry supported authentication, but once a user was authenticated, they had full access to all Schema Registry operations, including reading, modifying, and deleting schemas and configuration both per-subject and globally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before v25.2, Schema Registry supported authentication, but once a user was authenticated, they had full access to all Schema Registry operations, including reading, modifying, and deleting schemas and configuration both per-subject and globally.
```

> Starting in release 25.2, Schema Registry Authorization provides fine-grained access control through ACLs. You can now restrict access to specific subjects and operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting in v25.2, Schema Registry Authorization provides fine-grained access control through ACLs. You can now restrict access to specific subjects and operations.
```

=== How to manage Schema Registry Authorization

You can manage Schema Registry Authorization in two ways:

- **Using rpk**: Use the xref:reference:rpk/rpk-security/rpk-security-acl-create.adoc[`rpk security acl create`] command, just like you would for other Kafka ACLs.
- **Using the API**: Use the xref:api:ROOT:schema-registry-api.adoc#get-/security/acls[Redpanda Schema Registry API] endpoints.

=== Schema Registry ACL resource types

Schema Registry Authorization introduces two new ACL resource types in addition to the standard Kafka ACL resources (`topic`, `group`, `cluster`, and `transactionalID`):

> * **`registry-global`**: Controls access to global, or top-level Schema Registry operations.
> * **`registry-subject`**: Controls access for specific Schema Registry subjects.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* **`registry`**: Controls access to global, or top-level Schema Registry operations.
* **`subject`**: Controls access for specific Schema Registry subjects.
```

registry-global and registry-subject are rpk-only flags, but in the table responses, the user will see `REGISTRY` or `SUBJECT`, and in the future, this will be the same wording used in Console

Reviewer 4: `REGISTRY` and `SUBJECT` are in the REST API, I think rpk is using `--registry-global`, `--registry-subject`

Reviewer 2: @BenPope @r-vasquez Not sure which presentation to use--what's shown in the output/REST API, or what users must type in as part of the rpk flags. 

I just downloaded the latest, and it still shows the options as:
```
--registry-global                Whether to grant ACLs for the schema registry
--registry-subject strings       Schema Registry subjects to grant ACLs for (repeatable) 
```

For now, updated to include everything but the kitchen sink here! :-) But in the end, it says it is listing "new ACL resource types", so we really should use the _actual ACL resource type names_, which are... Please advise.

Reviewer 5: I think here is better to use `REGISTRY` and `SUBJECT` (what's in the REST API) as it's effectively the 'Resource Type'.

The rpk examples already show how to set those, so I think we should be fine.

== Supported operations

Redpanda Schema Registry ACLs support the following specific subset of Schema Registry endpoints and operations:

[NOTE]
====

> Not all Kafka endpoints are supported when using Redpanda Schema Registry ACLs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Not all Kafka operations are supported when using Redpanda Schema Registry ACLs.
```
I don't think it's worth pointing it out, but I won't push back.

1. The resource and the operation are tied together.
2. Is it also worth pointing out that Kafka resources aren't supported?
3. The table below shows the ACL operation and resource required to use the given REST endpoint; the implication is that nothing else is supported.
4. In reality the set of supported ACL operations is different for `global` and `subject`.

Reviewer 2: @BenPope I included because there are at least 3 Kafka operations not supported in RP SR ACLs. From a user experience perspective, seems like it would be nice to know this is a subset...thoughts @mattschumpert?

====

|===
| Endpoint | HTTP Verb | Operation | Resource

| `/config`
| `GET`
| `describe_configs`

> | `global`

Reviewer 5: Should we replace `global` with `registry`? Cc @BenPope

Reviewer 4: My inclination is that the resources are `registry-global` and `registry-subject`.

The REST API Is using `GLOBAL`, `SUBJECT` since registry part is implied.
rpk is using `--registry-global`, `--registry-subject` to name the resources when manipulating registry ACLs.

| `GET`
| `describe`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions`
| `POST`
| `write`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `DELETE`
| `delete`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/schema`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/referencedby`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `global`

| `compatibility/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `POST`
| `read`
| `subject`

| `/status/ready`
| `GET`
| none/open
| -

| `/security/acls`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `cluster_action`

| `/security/acls`
| `POST`
| `alter`
| `cluster_action`

| `/security/acls`
| `DELETE`
| `alter`
| `cluster_action`
|===

For additional guidance on these operations, see the xref:api:ROOT:schema-registry-api.adoc#get-/security/acls[Redpanda Schema Registry API].

== Enable Schema Registry Authorization

=== Prerequisites

Before you can enable Schema Registry Authorization, you must have:

* A valid Redpanda Enterprise license
* Cluster administrator permissions to modify cluster configuration

=== Enable authorization

To enable Schema Registry Authorization for your cluster:

[,bash]
----

> rpk cluster config set schema_registry_enable_authorization true

Reviewer 4: Maybe add a section for enabling the ACL for the registry ACL admin?
```
rpk security acl create --allow-principal schema_registry_admin --cluster --operation alter
```

Reviewer 2: Should this come first then?

Reviewer 4: Order not important, happy with where it is now. Is it obvious enough that `schema_registry_admin` is the principal they want to configure? The next step says:
```
This example creates an ACL that allows the principal panda to read from both the topic bar
```
Perhaps change:
```diff
- To enable Schema Registry Authorization for the registry ACL admin:
+ To enable management of Schema Registry ACLs by the principal `schema_registry_admin`:
```

PRINCIPAL   HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:panda  *     SUBJECT        bar-value      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
User:panda  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW

----

=== Create an ACL for global Schema Registry access

This example grants the user `jane` global read and write access to the Schema Registry, plus read and write access to the topic `private`. The `--registry-global` flag creates ACLs for all global Schema Registry operations.

[,bash]
----
rpk security acl create --allow-principal jane --operation read,write --topic private --registry-global
PRINCIPAL  HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:jane  *     REGISTRY                      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
User:jane  *     REGISTRY                      LITERAL                WRITE      ALLOW
User:jane  *     TOPIC          private        LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
User:jane  *     TOPIC          private        LITERAL                WRITE      ALLOW
----

> User `jane` now has global `read` and `write` access to the Schema Registry, and to the topic `private`.

Reviewer 5: This, for me, implies Global = All access. It might be worth linking to the table above, which shows what READ and WRITE for REGISTRY actually gives access to

[NOTE]
====
Redpanda recommends using the topic naming strategy for Schema Registry subjects, where subjects follow the pattern `<topicName>-key` or `<topicName>-value`. For details, see xref:manage:schema-reg/schema-id-validation#set-subject-name-strategy-per-topic.adoc[Set subject name strategy per topic].
====

[,bash]
----
# Create the role
rpk security role create SoftwareEng

# Create ACLs for the role
rpk security acl create \
  --operation read,write \
  --topic private \
  --registry-subject private-key,private-value \
  --allow-role SoftwareEng

# You can add more ACLs to this role later
rpk security acl create --allow-role "RedpandaRole:SoftwareEng" [additional-acl-flags]
----

After creating the role, assign it to users:

[,bash]
----

rpk security role assign SoftwareEng --principal User:john,User:jane
Successfully assigned role "SoftwareEng" to
NAME  PRINCIPAL-TYPE
john  User
jane  User
----

=== Troubleshooting ACL creation

When creating ACLs that include Schema Registry subjects, you might encounter errors if the subject doesn't exist or if there are configuration issues.

> ==== Common error: Subject not found

Reviewer 5: Redpanda should be able to create ACLs for non-existing subjects.

The `Not found` error you are seeing here is the request to `12:17:33.935 DEBUG sending request {"method": "POST", "URL: "http://127.0.0.1:8081/security/acls", "has_bearer": false, "has_basic_auth": false}` 

returned a `Not found`, meaning that the endpoint is not available (i.e you are using an old Redpanda version)

Sometimes an ACL for a Kafka topic is created successfully, but the Schema Registry subject ACL fails:

[,bash]
----
rpk security acl create --allow-principal alice --operation read --topic bar --registry-subject bar-value

PRINCIPAL   HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:alice  *     SUBJECT        bar-value      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW       Not found
User:alice  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
----

In this example, the ACL for topic `bar` was created successfully, but the ACL for Schema Registry subject `bar-value` failed with a "Not found" error.

**Common causes:**

> * The Schema Registry subject `bar-value` doesn't exist yet

Reviewer 5: Perhaps we can replace this example for a cluster without a license error, and have a CTA to our license docs:

```
$ rpk security acl create --topic private --allow-principal mary --operation read --registry-subject private-key -v
18:27:05.485  DEBUG  opening connection to broker  {"addr": "127.0.0.1:9092", "broker": "seed_0"}
18:27:05.485  DEBUG  connection opened to broker  {"addr": "127.0.0.1:9092", "broker": "seed_0"}
18:27:05.485  DEBUG  issuing api versions request  {"broker": "seed_0", "version": 4}
18:27:05.485  DEBUG  wrote ApiVersions v4  {"broker": "seed_0", "bytes_written": 31, "write_wait": "14.584µs", "time_to_write": "18.25µs", "err": null}
18:27:05.487  DEBUG  read ApiVersions v4  {"broker": "seed_0", "bytes_read": 331, "read_wait": "23.583µs", "time_to_read": "1.847542ms", "err": null}
18:27:05.487  DEBUG  connection initialized successfully  {"addr": "127.0.0.1:9092", "broker": "seed_0"}
18:27:05.487  DEBUG  wrote CreateACLs v2  {"broker": "seed_0", "bytes_written": 45, "write_wait": "2.564792ms", "time_to_write": "8.75µs", "err": null}
18:27:05.489  DEBUG  read CreateACLs v2  {"broker": "seed_0", "bytes_read": 19, "read_wait": "20.042µs", "time_to_read": "1.465375ms", "err": null}
18:27:05.489  DEBUG  sending request  {"method": "POST", "URL": "http://127.0.0.1:8081/security/acls", "has_bearer": false, "has_basic_auth": false}
PRINCIPAL  HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:mary  *     SUBJECT        private-key    LITERAL                READ       ALLOW       Invalid license: not present
User:mary  *     TOPIC          private        LITERAL                READ       ALLOW       
```

= Schema Registry Authorization
:page-categories: Management, Schema Registry, rpk, Security
:page-aliases: manage:schema-reg-authorization.adoc
:description: Learn how to set up and manage Schema Registry Authorization using ACL definitions that control user access to specific Schema Registry operations.

> // tag::single-source[]

Reviewer 6: What's the related `cloud-docs` PR? We should connect the PRs in the playbook so we can verify the cloud version too?

Reviewer 2: Not supported in Cloud

Reviewer 2: But will be in Console

Reviewer 4: It's a user configurable property, SR ACLs are absolutely supported in cloud

> Schema Registry Authorization enables fine-grained restriction of operations to Schema Registry resources by user or role through Access Control Lists (ACLs).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Schema Registry Authorization enables fine-grained restriction of operations to Schema Registry resources by user or role through access control lists (ACLs).
```

====
endif::[]

== About Schema Registry Authorization

Schema Registry Authorization allows you to control which users and applications can perform specific operations within the Redpanda Schema Registry. This ensures that only authorized entities can read, write, modify, delete, or configure schemas and their settings.

Before v25.2, Schema Registry supported authentication, but once a user was authenticated, they had full access to all Schema Registry operations, including reading, modifying, and deleting schemas and configuration both per-subject and globally.

Starting in v25.2, Schema Registry Authorization provides fine-grained access control through ACLs. You can now restrict access to specific subjects and operations.

=== How to manage Schema Registry Authorization

You can manage Schema Registry Authorization in two ways:

- **Using rpk**: Use the xref:reference:rpk/rpk-security/rpk-security-acl-create.adoc[`rpk security acl create`] command, just like you would for other Kafka ACLs.
- **Using the API**: Use the xref:api:ROOT:schema-registry-api.adoc#get-/security/acls[Redpanda Schema Registry API] endpoints.

=== Schema Registry ACL resource types

> Schema Registry Authorization introduces two new ACL resource types in addition to the standard Kafka ACL resources (`topic`, `group`, `cluster`, and `transactionalID`):

Reviewer 6: See my other comment about these types. I think they (old ones + new ones) be either lowercase or uppercase.

* `REGISTRY`: Controls whether or not to grant ACL access to global, or top-level Schema Registry operations. Specify using the flag `registry-global`.
* `SUBJECT`: Controls ACL access for specific Schema Registry subjects. Specify using the flag `registry-subject`.

== Supported operations

Redpanda Schema Registry ACLs support the following specific subset of Schema Registry endpoints and operations:

[NOTE]
====
Not all Kafka operations are supported when using Redpanda Schema Registry ACLs.
====

|===

> | Endpoint | HTTP Verb | Operation | Resource

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
| Endpoint | HTTP method | Operation | Resource
```

| `/config`
| `GET`
| `describe_configs`

> | `registry-global`

Reviewer 7: @Feediver1 this may be accurate, but Im confused.  Above the resource is called 'REGISTRY' but below its called 'registry-global' . The latter may be in fact just the syntax we've chosen to use in RPK, but it doesn't map to the resources in the docs page describing ACLs in Redpanda overall, nor does it match the RPK readout. If that's the case, we might want to include the actual resource name (in all caps) that one would see when listing ACLS as another column.  One is the actual resource name and the other would be the RPK syntax.

Is this right @r-vasquez ?  cc @treevon

Reviewer 2: Awaiting your response @r-vasquez @treevon

Reviewer 5: I missed this table on my first pass. Yes, it should be `registry` and `subject` to be aligned with the rest of the document.

| `registry-subject`

| `/mode/{subject}`
| `DELETE`
| `alter_configs`
| `registry-subject`

| `/schemas/types`
| `GET`
| none/open
| -

| `/schema/ids/{id}`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `registry-subject`

| `/schema/ids/{versions}`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `registry-global`

| `/schema/ids/{subjects}`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}`
| `POST`
| `read`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}`
| `DELETE`
| `delete`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions`
| `POST`
| `write`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `DELETE`
| `delete`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/schema`
| `GET`
| `read`
| `registry-subject`

| `/subjects/{subject}/versions/referencedby`
| `GET`
| `describe`
| `registry-global`

| `compatibility/subjects/{subject}/versions/{version}`
| `POST`
| `read`
| `registry-subject`

| `/status/ready`
| `GET`
| none/open
| -

| `/security/acls`
| `GET`
| `describe`

> | `cluster_action`

Reviewer 7: @Feediver1 similarly here, I don't think 'cluster_action' is the true resource name within redpanda.  IIUC the resource is 'CLUSTER' and the action 'DESCRIBE'.

But I guess rpk uses a flag called --cluster_action @r-vasquez ?? @treevon .

Reviewer 5: rpk has `--cluster`, AFAIU `cluster_action` is a valid kafka API operation. But I thought we wouldn't support this in schema registry.

@BenPope I see this in the RFC but I also see other thread where we mention:

> CLUSTER_ACTION, CREATE, IDEMPOTENT_WRITE are supported operations on the kafka api but don't apply to the SR "subject" and "registry" resources.

So maybe this is something that I don't entirely understand, sorry

Reviewer 2: @BenPope I only have 20 min before I have to merge this. I'm going with `cluster` as the resource here. We can revise later if this is wrong.

Reviewer 4: rpk names the resource `--cluster` for creatting and `CLUSTER` when reporting

`cluster` works well.

| `/security/acls`
| `POST`
| `alter`
| `cluster_action`

| `/security/acls`
| `DELETE`
| `alter`
| `cluster_action`
|===

For additional guidance on these operations, see the xref:api:ROOT:schema-registry-api.adoc#get-/security/acls[Redpanda Schema Registry API].

== Enable Schema Registry Authorization

=== Prerequisites

Before you can enable Schema Registry Authorization, you must have:

* A valid Redpanda Enterprise license

> * v25.2 version of rpk

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* `rpk` version 25.2+
```
You could also add: To check your current version, see... and link to **Install or Update rpk** page

* Cluster administrator permissions to modify cluster configuration

=== Enable authorization

> To enable Schema Registry Authorization for your cluster:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To enable Schema Registry Authorization for your cluster, run:
```

[,bash]
----
rpk cluster config set schema_registry_enable_authorization true
----

> To enable management of Schema Registry ACLs by the principal `schema_registry_admin`:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To enable management of Schema Registry ACLs by the principal `schema_registry_admin`, run:
```

PRINCIPAL   HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:panda  *     SUBJECT        bar-value      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
User:panda  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW

----

=== Create an ACL for global Schema Registry access

This example grants the user `jane` global read and write access to the Schema Registry, plus read and write access to the topic `private`. The `--registry-global` flag creates ACLs for all <<supported-operations,global Schema Registry operations>>.

[,bash]
----
rpk security acl create --allow-principal jane --operation read,write --topic private --registry-global
PRINCIPAL  HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:jane  *     REGISTRY                      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
User:jane  *     REGISTRY                      LITERAL                WRITE      ALLOW
User:jane  *     TOPIC          private        LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
User:jane  *     TOPIC          private        LITERAL                WRITE      ALLOW
----

> User `jane` now has global `read` and `write` access to the Schema Registry, and to the topic `private`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
User `jane` now has global `read` and `write` access to the Schema Registry and to the topic `private`.
```

Reviewer 4: > ```suggestion
> User `jane` now has global `read` and `write` access to the Schema Registry and to the topic `private`.
> ```

Hey! The Oxford comma is sometimes required, leads to consistency, and!

=== Create a role with Schema Registry ACLs

> You can combine Schema Registry ACLs with xref:manage:security/authorization/rbac[Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)] to create reusable roles. This approach simplifies permission management when you need to assign the same set of permissions to multiple users.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can combine Schema Registry ACLs with xref:manage:security/authorization/rbac.adoc[role-based access control (RBAC)] to create reusable roles. This approach simplifies permission management when you need to assign the same set of permissions to multiple users.
```

> You can combine Schema Registry ACLs with xref:manage:security/authorization/rbac[role-based access control (RBAC)] to create reusable roles. This approach simplifies permission management when you need to assign the same set of permissions to multiple users.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can combine Schema Registry ACLs with xref:manage:security/authorization/rbac.adoc[role-based access control (RBAC)] to create reusable roles. This approach simplifies permission management when you need to assign the same set of permissions to multiple users.
```
This is necessary for the link to work

NAME  PRINCIPAL-TYPE
john  User
jane  User
----

=== Troubleshooting ACL creation

When creating ACLs that include Schema Registry subjects, you might encounter errors if the subject doesn't exist or if there are configuration issues.

==== Common error: Subject not found

Sometimes an ACL for a Kafka topic is created successfully, but the Schema Registry subject ACL fails:

[,bash]
----
rpk security acl create --allow-principal alice --operation read --topic bar --registry-subject bar-value

PRINCIPAL   HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:alice  *     SUBJECT        bar-value      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW       Not found
User:alice  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
----

In this example, the ACL for topic `bar` was created successfully, but the ACL for Schema Registry subject `bar-value` failed with a "Not found" error.

**Common causes:**

* Incorrect Schema Registry URL configuration
* Using the incorrect version of Redpanda

==== Debugging with verbose output

To get more detailed information about ACL creation failures, use the `-v` flag for verbose logging.

> In this case, the user has received a `Not found` error after attempting to create two ACLs, one for the subject and one for the topic:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In this case, the user gets a `Not found` error after attempting to create two ACLs, one for the subject and one for the topic:
```

12:17:33.920 DEBUG connection initialized successfully {"addr": "127.0.0.1:9092", "broker": "seed_0"}
12:17:33.920 DEBUG wrote CreateACLs  v2 {"broker": "seed_0", "bytes_written": 43, "write_wait": 9.0985ms, "time_to_write": "14µs", "err": null}
12:17:33.935 DEBUG read CreateACLs v2 {"broker": "seed_0", "bytes_read": 19, "read_wait": 23.792µs, "time_to_read": "14.323041ms", "err": null}
12:17:33.935 DEBUG sending request {"method": "POST", "URL: "http://127.0.0.1:8081/security/acls", "has_bearer": false, "has_basic_auth": false}
PRINCIPAL   HOST  RESOURCE-TYPE  RESOURCE-NAME  RESOURCE-PATTERN-TYPE  OPERATION  PERMISSION  ERROR
User:alice  *     SUBJECT        bar-value      LITERAL                READ       ALLOW       Not found
User:alice  *     TOPIC          bar            LITERAL                READ       ALLOW
----

The `Not found` error occurs in the request: `12:17:33.935 DEBUG sending request {"method": "POST", "URL: "http://127.0.0.1:8081/security/acls", "has_bearer": false, 
"has_basic_auth": false}`, meaning that the endpoint is not available (because you are using an older Redpanda version). You must upgrade to the current version of Redpanda.

> This next error occured while the user was trying to create two ACLs, one for a topic and one for a registry-subject:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This next error occurs when the user tries to create two ACLs, one for a topic and one for a registry-subject:
```
